h1. NState

NState is a finite state machine system for the Unity Game Engine, developed by Slippy Douglas for Nectar Games. More info at "nectargames.com/2009/09/09/quest-for-an-event-driven-fsm-and-messaging-system-in-unity-day-one":http://nectargames.com/2009/09/09/quest-for-an-event-driven-fsm-and-messaging-system-in-unity-day-one .

NState is far from what I'd call a "1.0" release, but it is usable to an extent. The next major thing that needs to be done is a full write-up of how to use it and, preferably, a demo project.

License info pending, but it will likely be some kind of "free to use, as long as you give me credit" type of deal. It is on GitHub, after all.



h2. Notes

h3. Dependencies

* NState relies on NEvent ("github.com/slippyd/unity3d-NEvent":http://github.com/slippyd/unity3d-NEvent).
* NState optionally uses UUnit ("github.com/slippyd/unity3d-UUnit":http://github.com/slippyd/unity3d-UUnit). To remove this dependency, locally delete the "Test" folder.


h3. Incompatibilities

* NState _will not work_ if placed in a *Plugins* or a *Editor* folder in your project. (It takes care of load order with its own internal folder structure.)



h2. Basic Usage

h3. Direct Download (without Git)

Use this if you just want to check the library, with no risks.

# Go to the GitHub page for this project (likely "github.com/slippyd/unity3d-NState":http://github.com/slippyd/unity3d-NState).
# Click the *Download* button and choose a format (ZIP is a safe bet).
# Wait for the download and then uncompress it (if it doesn't automatically).
# Rename the resulting folder to just *NState*.
# Drop it into your project's *Assets/Libs* folder.



h2. Advanced Usage

Prerequisite: _Make sure you're set up for Git. (There are plenty of good resources available, including GitHub itself.)_


h3. Tracking Latest (via Git Clone)

Use this if your Unity project is not a Git repository (i.e. if you're using SVN or otherwise).

To get it:
# @cd@ into the *Assets/Libs* directory of your project (or any other subdirectory of *Assets*).
# Run a: <code>git://github.com/slippyd/unity3d-NState.git NState</code>

Later on, to update to latest:
# @cd@ into the *NState* directory again.
# Run a: <code>git pull origin master</code>



h3. Tracking Latest (via Git Submodule)

To get it:
# @cd@ into the root directory of your project.
# Run the following (make sure the *Libs* directory exists beforehand):
	<pre>git submodule add git://github.com/slippyd/unity3d-NState.git Assets/Libs/NState
git submodule init
git submodule update</pre>

Later on, to update to latest:
# @cd@ into the root directory of your project again.
# Run a: <code>git submodule update</code>


h3. Making Modifications (via Git Fork)

# @cd@ into the *Assets/Libs* directory of your project.
# Fork the repository and then clone your version (following the GitHub help page at "help.github.com/forking":http://help.github.com/forking/).
#* On the line where it says to do a "@git clone@", you'll probably want to do this (note the "_your_username_here_"):<br/>
	<pre>git clone git@github.com:your_username_here/unity3d-NState.git NState</pre>